[docs] Add value constraints section (#9)
TempleEight/temple-docs: TempleEight/docs/guide/value-constraints.md

---
id: value-constraints
title: Value Constraints
sidebar_label: Value Constraints
---

> Sometimes you need more control over the values that are acceptable in your data model, for these cases Temple provides a suite of Value Constraints:
> extra metadata you can attach to properties that allow values to be restricted in some way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes you need more control over the values that are acceptable in your data model.
For these cases Temple provides a suite of Value Constraints: extra metadata you can attach to properties that allow values to be restricted in some way.
```

## Primitive Restrictions

Many of Temple's primitive data types support optional parameters when you declare them, to give bounds on their values.

An example of this is when an integer is defined. We'll take the `ExampleService` from the [Getting Started](getting-started) guide:

```
ExampleService: service {
  foo: string;
  bar: int;
}
```

> If for example we wanted to constrain the `bar` property to be only positive numbers, we could write:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If, for example, we wanted to constrain the `bar` property to be only positive numbers, we could write:
```

```
ExampleService: service {
  foo: string;

>   bar: int(0);

Reviewer: Might be worth adding the argument name here, then saying it can be dropped?

Author: I forgot we still supported those!

}
```

> As when the integer property is given a single parameter, it's the minimum bound on the value. 

Reviewer: This doesn't make sense

If we wanted to restrict it between two numbers, for example 0 and 100, we'd write:

```
ExampleService: service {
  foo: string;
  bar: int(0, 100);
}
```

Most of the primitives in Temple support similar parameters. 

> The full list of parameters can be found in the [Primitives](reference/primitives) section of the Templefile reference.

Reviewer: Not sure if we're capitalising or not?
```suggestion
The full list of parameters can be found in the [primitives](reference/primitives) section of the Templefile reference.
```

## Annotations

In addition to restricting individual values with primitive parameters, Temple supports adding service-level constraints with annotations.

Currently there is one supported annotation, with more being planned to be released in the future.

> 

Reviewer: Should be a separate section called `### Unique`

By adding an `@unique` annotation to any property of a service, then at most one data object stored by the service may have a particular value stored in that property.
For example:

```
ExampleService: service {
  foo: string;
  bar: int @unique;
}
```

Means that the `bar` property on every `ExampleService` object must be unique.

> One could create an ExampleService object with values `foo = "test"` and `bar = 3`, but then no other object could have the value `bar = 3`. 

Reviewer: Maybe worth showing how this is resolved in a `cURL` request? 
Show the repeated query?

---
id: value-constraints
title: Value Constraints
sidebar_label: Value Constraints
---

> Sometimes you need more control over the values that are acceptable in your data model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sometimes you need more control over the values that are valid in your data model.
```

For these cases Temple provides a suite of Value Constraints: extra metadata you can attach to properties that allow values to be restricted in some way.

## Primitive Restrictions

> Many of Temple's primitive data types support optional parameters when you declare them, to give bounds on their values.
> 
> An example of this is when an integer is defined. We'll take the `ExampleService` from the [Getting Started](getting-started) guide:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Many of Temple's primitive data types support optional parameters when you declare them, to give bounds on their values.
An example of this is when an integer is defined. We'll take the `ExampleService` from the [Getting Started](getting-started) guide:
```

```
ExampleService: service {
  foo: string;
  bar: int;
}
```

If, for example, we wanted to constrain the `bar` property to be only positive numbers, we could write:

```
ExampleService: service {
  foo: string;
  bar: int(min: 0);
}
```

If we wanted to restrict it between two numbers, for example 0 and 100, we'd write:

```
ExampleService: service {
  foo: string;

>   bar: int(0, 100);

Reviewer: Wait, doesn’t max come first?

>   bar: int(0, 100);

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  bar: int(100, 0);
```
I’m wondering if we should flip them to `min,max` in the code though, it‘s feeling more and more stupid that max comes first though. It started off with wanting `string(5)` to mean a max length, but even so

}
```

Notice that here we didn't provide the argument names to the `int` definitions, as they're optional.
However, when only a single argument is provided to the `int` definition, it defaults to the `max` argument.

> By using the `min:` name, we can specify the `min` without the `max`.
> 
> Most of the primitives in Temple support similar parameters. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By using the `min:` name, we can specify the `min` without the `max`.
Most of the primitives in Temple support similar parameters. 
```

> The full list of parameters can be found in the [primitives](reference/primitives) section of the Templefile reference.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The full list of parameters can be found in the [Primitives](reference/primitives) section of the Templefile reference.
```

## Annotations

> In addition to restricting individual values with primitive parameters, Temple supports adding service-level constraints with annotations.
> 
> Currently there is one supported annotation, with more being planned to be released in the future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to restricting individual values with primitive parameters, Temple supports adding service-level constraints with annotations.
Currently there is one supported annotation, with more being planned to be released in the future.
```

### Unique

> By adding an `@unique` annotation to any property of a service, then at most one data object stored by the service may have a particular value stored in that property.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By adding a `@unique` annotation to a property, at most one object stored by the service may have a particular value stored for that property.
```

I believe we use `a` when the start of the word sounds like a consonant, in this case `unique` sounds like `yoonique`. But I don't got an English degree

For example:

```
ExampleService: service {
  foo: string;
  bar: int @unique;
}
```

Means that the `bar` property on every `ExampleService` object must be unique.

> One could create an ExampleService object with values `foo = "test"` and `bar = 3`, but then no other object could have the value `bar = 3`. 

Reviewer: We’ve been using We not One throughout

We can test this by running:

```bash

> ~/Documents/temple-tutorial ❯❯❯ curl -X POST $KONG_ENTRY/api/example-service -d '{"foo": "value!", "bar": 10}'

Reviewer: I’d be tempted to drop the path for consistency

{"id":"e24e6d58-83e7-11ea-b435-0242ac1d0003","foo":"value!","bar":10}

> ❯❯❯ curl -X POST $KONG_ENTRY/api/example-service -d '{"foo": "another value!", "bar": 10}'

Reviewer 2: triggers me that the prose gives `bar = 3` as example but commands have `bar = 10`

> {"error":"Something went wrong: pq: duplicate key value violates unique constraint \"example_service_bar_key\""}

Reviewer 2: believe this needs updating with the recent PR to improve the error returned

> {"error":"Something went wrong: pq: duplicate key value violates unique constraint \"example_service_bar_key\""}

Reviewer: Heh this should return a nicer error. Have opened TempleEight/temple#387

```

> When combined with property value level constraints, one could limit the total number of `ExampleService` objects that could exist at any one time.

Reviewer 2: jazzy, hadn't though of that possibility

Reviewer 3: does mean that you need to find unique values each time, so some sort of counter is needed somewhere…

For example:

```
ExampleService: service {
  foo: string;

>   bar: int(1, 100) @unique;

Reviewer 3: ditto, with the current version of the code this should be `int(100,1)`
